# 2018s4r1

## Release Schedule

| Deadline | Date | Document | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Release requirements released | Mon 2018-04-30  | [Requirements](#requirements)| |
| API development finished               | Mon 2018-05-07  | | |
| App/Frontend development finished      | Thu 2018-05-10  | | |
| PO approves that requirements are met  | Mon 2018-05-14  | | |
| Release                                | Tue 2018-05-15  | | |

See the requirements document for a description of what must be implemented
before the release can be considered finished.

## Release

| **Component** | **Source code** |
| -------------- |---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Weekplanner app | [https://github.com/aau-giraf/weekplanner/releases/tag/2018S4R1](https://github.com/aau-giraf/weekplanner/releases/tag/2018S4R1)|
|RestAPI         | [https://github.com/aau-giraf/web-api/releases/tag/2018S4R1](https://github.com/aau-giraf/web-api/releases/tag/2018S4R1)|

If the source code links for some reason don't work. Look for the release tag
`2018S4R1` in wherever the repository is now located.

## PO Requirements for release 2018S4R1 - Guardian Quality of Life

Scheduled for release on Tuesday 15th of May 2018.

### Relevant user stories

[T921](http://web.giraf.cs.aau.dk/T921), [T1005](http://web.giraf.cs.aau.dk/T1005),
[T1219](http://web.giraf.cs.aau.dk/T1219), [T1226](http://web.giraf.cs.aau.dk/T1226),
[T1238](http://web.giraf.cs.aau.dk/T1238), [T1244](http://web.giraf.cs.aau.dk/T1244)
and [T1268](http://web.giraf.cs.aau.dk/T1269).

### Requirements

This release focusses on the quality of life features for the guardians. The overall
idea is to implement functionality that makes it faster and easier for guardians
to modify or create schedules.
These user stories do not share a common page, such as from the last release, so
it is important that they are implemented on the correct page.

The requirements are all prioritized. The one beneath is the most important requirement.

#### Copy / move

The guardian must be able to move activities on the same day. This is done with
a drag & drop functionality. When the guardian drags an activity to another day
than the one the activity comes from, they must be prompted whether they want to
copy, move, or cancel the current action.

#### Choice-board

Choice-board is an option that you can choose an activity to be. It is
essentially used for the time-slots where a citizen can choose their own activity.
Choosing that an activity is a choice-board will enable adding multiple
pictograms to the activity. The activity will have a default "Choose a pictogram"
pictogram, and when pressed upon in citizen mode, a view will pop up where the
citizen can choose between the added pictograms.
An example would be if a guardian adds a timeslot for when the citizen has to be
active. The guardian chooses pictograms for running, walking, biking, and roller-blading.
The citizen must then press the activity for being active, and choose what he/she
wants to do. If the citizen chooses running, a pictogram for running will replace
the default "Choose a pictogram" pictogram.

#### Setting that was not part of release 2018S3R2

The following setting must be part of this release. It is a setting that were excluded
from the previous release.

- Number of days/activities shown in a week (Antal dage/aktiviteter vist for en uge)
    - This setting can be set to a number between 1 and 7. The citizens perspective
      will show the activities on the chosen number of days forward from the current
      day. Unless the chosen number exceeds the days left in the week. (say you choose
      to show 3 days ahead and the day is Saturday, then only Saturday and Sunday
      will be shown.) Completed tasks must still be shown, just as usual.
    - If 1 day is chosen, then the guardian can choose the amount of tasks that is
      shown in the single day.
        - For instance, a citizen can handle all activities, but only a single day.
          Another can handle 5 activities in a single day.
        - Default must be all activities, but the guardian must have the ability to
          specify the amount of tasks that the citizen is limited to, if necessary.
        - **This release must include at least 3, 5, 10, and all activities as options.**

#### Portrait mode when a single day is shown

If 1-day view is chosen in the setting for citizens, the tablet should enter portrait
mode in the weekplanner view. This is the case for all options for single-day view,
both with limited and unlimited activities shown.
_This is dependent on the setting above!_

#### Templates

The guardian must be able to choose a specific template. This must be placed as
a button on the NewSchedulePage / NewScheduleViewModel, where the guardian must
be able to choose from a selection of templates.

#### Specify number of days in a schedule

The guardian must be able to specify the exact days that the schedule should have,
when creating a schedule. This must, as with templates, be placed on the NewSchedulePage
/ NewScheduleViewModel. This must be implemented with checkboxes. A checkbox for
each day that is by default checked, and the guardian can then uncheck the specific
days that they do not want to include.

#### Save prompts

Whenever the guardian leaves the weekplannerpage or enters citizen mode, they must
be prompted and asked whether they want to save any changes. The guardian MUST ONLY
be prompted when an unsaved change to the schedule is made.

#### Admin panel

The admin panel is where new citizens and guardians are created. The admin panel
is a web-based application. The application starts with a login screen, where a
department administrator can use their login to gain access. The application must
have options to create new citizens for the department that the administrator is
in. Furthermore, there must also be an option to create new guardians for the department.
There must also be an option to configurate already existing guardians and citizens.

#### Master-detail

The master-detail page must be accessible from the weekplannerpage in guardian mode
only. It must have navigation to settingspage. It must have the possibility to
return to choose citizen, and also the ability to log out of the application.
