
Try pandoc!

pandoc --from latex --to gfm

  from

to

# Organization Overview

We will describe the overall structure and development process of the
GIRAF multi-project 2019. This manual is written by the Scrum group
(SW602F19).

## Development Approach

The multi project process will use full stack teams. In this guide a
full stack team will be referred to as a development group. The
development groups are responsible for the completion of user stories.
Thus there are no specialized groups or teams. Designated members of the
group are assigned to a certain skill, more on that in section
[Roles](#roles).

## Roles

In the following section we describe the different roles in the GIRAF
project, as well as their responsibilities.

### Development Groups

The development groups are the groups we have been assigned by the
university, e.g. SW602F19. The development groups are the groups that
will work individually on the given user stories.

> Note: the PO-group and the Scrum group are also development groups.


### Skill Groups

The skill groups consist of one person from each development group,
called a skill member. Three skill groups exist: frontend, backend, and
server. The skill groups are responsible for determining formats of the
work to be done in the field, e.g. the front end group will set the
standards for GUI, coloring of buttons, fonts, etc.  
The rest of the group members are allowed to attend the skill group
meetings, despite not being the specific skill member. This is to help
convey the skill groups’ standards to the rest of their respective
development groups. If the dedicated skill member is sick, the
development group sends a substitute.  

> Group members participating despite not being a skill member
or substitute for one, should only be listeners, as too many people
actively participating in the discussion at each meeting will prolong
the process significantly.

The skill groups’ members should also try to be available to each other
so that questions or remarks can be easily communicated between them.
Each skill group should meet at least once per week to update each other
on the work happening in the development groups in regards to the skill
groups area of expertise.


> Note: this is a recommendation and not a requirement

#### Skill Member

A skill member’s responsibility is to make sure that his/her development
group follows the standards set in the skill groups.

## Scrum Master Group

The Scrum Master Group (also known as the Scrum group) has the
responsibility of facilitating meetings between the development groups,
and to make sure that all meetings are as efficient as possible. The
Scrum group will also set initial processes for the development groups
to follow. They will host the sprint planning, SOS stand-ups, the first
skill group meeting, and sprint retrospective meetings.  
In general the Scrum Master group is available to everyone for
facilitation or moderation of meetings if e.g. skill groups feel that
they need another party present for a specific meeting.

## Product Owner Group

The product owner group (also known as the PO-group) are responsible for
communication with the customers. Based on that communication, they come
up with a set of user stories on the backlog. They are responsible for
prioritizing these user stories to conform to the wishes of the
customers. They are strongly represented at the sprint planning and
sprint review meetings. If a group discovers that they have either too
many or too few tasks, they can talk to the PO-group and arrange a
meeting.